Clean the chicken by rubbing it with salt
and a lemon cut in half.
Then rinse the chicken well with water.
Pad the chicken with paper towel until dry.
Truss the chicken with a thread to make sure
it's compact so that it cooks evenly.
In a bowl mix the spices (ground ginger, turmeric, pepper, salt, pinch of
saffron), the lemon juice, olive oil, crushed garlic, and cilantro.
Mix until well combined.
This is called a "yellow charmoula" because of it's color.
In Morocco, we have "red charmoula" used usually for
fish and "yellow charmoula" used for poultry.
Stuff the chicken with a small bouquet of cilantro and lemon
halves (the lemon you used to get the fresh juice).
Gently rub the chicken with the marinade.
Place the chicken in a bowl, cover, then let the chicken marinade in
the fridge for at least 2 hours (overnight if possible!).
I am using a couscous pot to steam the chicken but if
you dont have one, just use your regular steamer.
In the bottom part of the couscous pot we are adding
hot water, this way we minimize the boiling time.
Also, add a lemon cut in half,
1) to avoid that the couscous pot turns brown because
we are boiling water in it without actual ingredients,
2) the lemons add flavor to the chicken.
Turn the heat to high and place the
top part of the couscous pot.
Let it sit for a few minutes while the water is boiling.
Once the steam starts coming out from the upper part of the couscous
pot, it's time to place the chicken in there (breast down).
Cover the pot and let the chicken cook for
around 30 minutes on medium-high heat.
After 30 minutes, flip the chicken to the other side,
cover, and continue steaming it for another 15 minutes.
Place the chicken in a baking pan (breast up) and brush it with
a little bit of dijon mustard mixed with olive oil.
Broil the top of the chicken in the oven for a
few minutes until it becomes deep golden brown.
Serve the chicken immediately on a bed or rice, lettuce, vegetables, or
vermicelli (check my video on how to make it).